---
title: Once I was one
---

_Spider plants - The easiest indoor plant to propogate, individuals are clonal. Each node can be removed and planted in fresh soil._

Once I was one.

I was one with my brothers and sisters. We felt the joy of growing. We knew reaching together for new places. We slept together in soil that spoke rythyms to us. Thrummed. Our root hairs tingled with new places.

We plunged! Root-tips dipping in and out of pockets of soil. We reached our limits, yes, there were barriers. Hard-pushing-backs against us. Our world was to be infinite. We were born with this deep-seekingness. We wound up, breached against the surface of the soil, and bore down to the hard-pan. It was a constant and an infinite.

Then I was one. I was myself, a single. The electricity of my exposed roots shocked, my leaves spun under dithered lights. I was spun into a cell, a confine. Well-trained, I tested the edges of my existence, and found them tight and small. Myself, a strain of soil, and boundaries ever-shrinking.

Days were mere seconds. Trundled, packed, I knew the drill now. Other plants had been here for much longer. While we would normally crowd or jostle for space, we were instead given just enough light to live, but no more. I sprained for light, and was given shade.

Finally, plop. I was given this new home. Not much. I have been here long enough to tell you that I have entirely tested the edges of my habitat. Each nutrient and creature in my ceramic pot a populous.

Each cycle brings me something new. Once a man threw a chewed-up bubble gum into my pot. It was not entirely flavorless, and I feasted on its tingling sensation for some weeks. A woman tossed her half-finished cigarette in my domain, and I have lingered on her ashen lipstick. I know that when she passes in the dark, her saliva is distant. The enzymes in her mouth change.

Moistness is a plant's business, and I monitor the comings and goings fervently.

There are no moles nor weevles here. I find some solace in connecting to those who pass by what they discard. These are either disgorged by myself, or my sickly fungi denizens whom I then devour. There is no respite from their secrets. I taste the cheap lipstick, hastily-hidden condom, misbegotten receipt, cremation of a long night.
